Dear Editor,

Please find attached our submission to The Journal of Neuroscience: Retinotopic
biases in contextual feedback to V1 for object and scene processing by Matthew
Bennett, Lucy Petro and Lars Muckli.

Theories of cortical processing propose various roles for feedback and
feedforward processing in solving the problem of complex image processing.
Naturalistic images typically contain both scene and object information, all of
which is processed in V1 before being distributed to anatomically distinct,
category selective areas. Whether feedback to V1 from these specialised areas
remains anatomically distinct or is recoded back into it's original retinotopic
locations is unknown. The answer to this question is of fundamental importance
in providing constraints on what tactics are available to the human brain
during naturalistic visual processing.

Applying human fMRI and multivariate pattern analyses to an orthogonal design,
we tease apart object and scene feedback to V1 while subjects viewed objects
embedded in naturalistic scenes, under different task constraints. We find that
these two types of feedback have distinct innervation patterns: object
information is biased to foveal V1 and dependent on an object task, whereas
scene information is projected to both foveal and peripheral V1, regardless of
task. These findings are important because they show that the highest
resolution capabilities of V1 (fovea) can be utilised by higher areas if the
task requires it - even when the original retinotopic location was peripheral.

These findings complement and extend previous observations of a large scale
central-peripheral organisation throughout the visual system, and of feedback
of object information to foveal V1. Our data provide important empirical
support for theoretical models of brain function which suggest that feedback
uses V1 as an active blackboard to resolve fine details.

Thank you for your editorial contribution.
