Dear Dr Picciotto,

Please find attached our submission to The Journal of Neuroscience: Increased
region of surround stimulation enhances contextual feedback and feedforward
processing in human V1 by Yulia Revina, Lucy Petro and Lars Muckli.

Theories of cortical processing propose various roles for feedback and
feedforward processing, but systematically investigating their independent
contributions to cortical processing is challenging because feedback and
feedforward processes coexist even in single neurons. Capitalising on the
larger receptive fields of higher visual areas compared to primary visual
cortex (V1), we employed an occlusion paradigm that isolates top-down
influences from feedforward processing.

We used human fMRI and multivariate pattern analyses to parametrically study
the effect of increasing scene surround on the presence of detectable feedback
in an occluded region of a visual scene in V1 and how this feedback interacts
with feedforward processing. Our findings are important because the information
content of cortical feedback in human cortex is not well-known. We show that
increasing the visibility of the contextual surround increases scene-specific
feedback information, and that this contextual feedback enhances feedforward
information. However, we show that feedback does not correspond to a direct
representation of the missing feedforward input, suggesting different
contributions of both feedback and feedforward signals during visual
processing. Our data provide important empirical support for theoretical models
of brain function which suggest that feedback contextualizes feedforward
processing in cortex by transmitting internal models of predicted input.

In addition, we anticipate that this paper will be a reference study for future
animal and modelling papers to follow. To provide the wider context of our
research, in collaborations, we are integrating our human brain imaging data
with rodent and monkey sub-neuronal and neuronal data, and with models of
dendritic computation and biologically informed machine learning. Our broad aim
is to advance the theoretical imperative to have computationally distinct
sub-compartments of pyramidal neurons, by substantiating this with multiscale
neuronal data acquired across common empirical tasks applied across speciesâ€™.

Thank you for your editorial contribution.
